This new homework will be due on Friday the 16th. The date cannot be moved,
because you need time to look over the solution before the midterm on Monday
the 19th of April.

I've provided you with a file PA3.sh, which is an improved form of many parts
of the previous programming assignment. In this new assignment, we'll fix some
of the commands to use arguments. We will also implement death. To get your
PA3.sh file to work, you must implement the scripts that it calls (I have also
provided you with a few of the simplest such scripts (turn2 and break2). 

I've also made a few changes to the rooms.tar file. Let's see that first:
    % bash
    % source ~/PA3/PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    % ls -l ~/_
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 Me None 18 Apr  2 04:53 /home/Me/_ -> /home/Me/PA3/rooms
    % ls ~/_/
    There  buttonRoom  es  filenamesdir i mistyRoom receivingRoom treasureRoom
    % ls ~/_/filenamesdir/
    1        button      e       lake     pc         se            temperature5
    9        cable       floor   lamp     pipe       shovel        temperature6
    axe      chute       floppy  n        pipes      silver        towel
    bed      d           gold    ne       platinum   sw            u
    boulder  description ibm     nw       preserver  temperature2  urinal
    box      dial        key     painting rms        temperature3  w
    bracelet diamond     ladder  paper    s          temperature4  weight
    %
    
So the filenamesdir directory has been moved into rooms.tar. This will help you
with testing your scripts, because this directory now gets reset every time the
game is restarted. I've also changed the button room's design:
    % ls -lA ~/_/buttonRoom/
    total 7
    drwxr-xr-x+ 1 Me None   0 Feb 26 18:15 .nw
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None   0 Jan 25 01:13 9
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None 104 Jan 21 00:37 button
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None  73 Jan 20 23:52 description
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None  64 Feb  2 02:14 ladder
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 Me None  22 Apr  2 03:20 u -> ../receivingRoom/e/n/e
    % ls -lA ~/_/buttonRoom/u/
    total 4
    -rw-r--r-- 1 Me None   0 Jan 25 01:05 9
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 Me None  22 Apr  1 03:30 d -> ../../../../buttonRoom
    -rw-r--r-- 1 Me None 197 Feb  9 04:02 description
    -rw-r--r-- 1 Me None  64 Feb  2 02:14 ladder
    -rw-r--r-- 1 Me None  22 Apr  1 03:31 preserver
    -rw-r--r-- 1 Me None  38 Jan 21 01:09 weight
    %
    
As you can see, there is now only one button room (no longer two copies of
the same room). Going down to ladder takes you to ~/_/buttonRoom. Going up the
ladder takes you back to the weight room. We notice a hidden file .nw, which
is the begining of the maze. What happens if we drop the weight?:
    >get lamp
    Taken.
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    You are at the south end of a hallway that leads to the north.  There
    are rooms to the east and west.
    >n
    End of N/S Hallway
    You are at the end of a north/south hallway.  You can go back to the south,
    or off to a room to the east.
    >e
    Weight room
    You are in an old weight room.  All of the equipment is either destroyed or
    completely broken.  There is a door out to the west, and there is a ladder
    leading down a hole in the floor.
    There is a 10 pound weight here.
    There is a life preserver here.
    >get weight
    Taken.
    >d
    Maze button room
    You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
    There is a button on the ground here.
    >

From the above we see that the get command now takes arguments. (There is also
"get all", so we won't have "getall" in this new version of the game. The same
is true of "drop weight" vs "dropweight", as we can see here:
    % ls -lA 
    total 7
    drwxr-xr-x+ 1 Me None   0 Feb 26 18:15 .nw
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None   0 Jan 25 01:13 9
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None 104 Jan 21 00:37 button
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None  73 Jan 20 23:52 description
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None  64 Feb  2 02:14 ladder
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 Me None  22 Apr  2 03:20 u -> ../receivingRoom/e/n/e
    >u
    Weight room
    There is a life preserver here.
    >d
    Maze button room
    There is a button on the ground here.
    >nw
    You cannot go that way.
    >drop weight
    Done.
    A passageway opens.
    >u
    You cannot go that way.
    >ls -lA
    total 8
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 Me None  22 Apr  2 03:20 .u -> ../receivingRoom/e/n/e
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None   0 Jan 25 01:13 1
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None 104 Jan 21 00:37 button
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 Me None   1 Apr  2 05:38 d -> .
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None  73 Jan 20 23:52 description
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 Me None   1 Apr  2 05:38 e -> .
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None  64 Feb  2 02:14 ladder
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 Me None   1 Apr  2 05:38 ne -> .
    drwxr-xr-x+ 1 Me None   0 Feb 26 18:15 nw
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 Me None   1 Apr  2 05:38 se -> .
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 Me None   1 Apr  2 05:38 sw -> .
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 Me None   1 Apr  2 05:38 w -> .
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None  38 Jan 21 01:09 weight
    >
    
OK, so the new links back to its own directory have been added. And the "nw"
file is no longer hidden -- but now the ".u" file is hidden, instead. If we
pick up the weight again, the room will revert to its old layout:
    >get weight
    Taken.
    % ls -lA 
    total 7
    drwxr-xr-x+ 1 Me None   0 Feb 26 18:15 .nw
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None   0 Jan 25 01:13 9
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None 104 Jan 21 00:37 button
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None  73 Jan 20 23:52 description
    -rw-r--r--  1 Me None  64 Feb  2 02:14 ladder
    lrwxrwxrwx  1 Me None  22 Apr  2 03:20 u -> ../receivingRoom/e/n/e
    >u
    Weight room
    There is a life preserver here.
    >get preserver
    Your load would be too heavy.
    >x preserver
    It says S. S. Minnow.
    >
From the above, we also see that I've fixed the preserver's text. And we've
implemented the game's weight restriction.

Let's get the items that are placed in the maze:
    >d
    Maze button room
    There is a button on the ground here.
    >drop weight
    Done.
    A passageway opens.
    >nw
    Maze
    You are in a maze of little twisty passages, all alike.
    >u
    Maze 
    You are in a maze of thirsty little passages, all alike.
    There is a floppy disk here.
    There is a wax statuette of Richard Stallman here.
    >get all
    A floppy disk: Taken.
    An RMS statuette: Taken.
    >
So we have gotten those two items out of the maze, and then we have teleported
to our start directory. From the above, we also notice that the display for
"get all" says ":Taken" at the end of the line instead of saying "Taken: " at
the beginning. The object descriptions are also corrected (eg, "A floppy disk",
not "A floppy", as in the last homework). The output is now like the real game.

The reason the we got these two items is that they react to the sauna:
    >cd ~/_/receivingRoom
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    You are at the south end of a hallway that leads to the north.  There
    are rooms to the east and west.
    >drop floppy
    Done.
    >e
    Sauna
    You are in a sauna.  There is nothing in the room except for a dial
    on the wall.  A door leads out to west.
    It is normal room temperature in here.
    >drop rms
    Done.
    >turn
    You must supply an object.
    >turn rms
    You can't turn that.
    >i
    You currently have:
    A lamp
    >turn lamp
    I don't see that here.
    >
From the above we see that "turn" can only find objects in the room, not in the
inventory. We also see that the command requires an object.

Turn also knows the difference between real objects that aren't in the room, as
compared to words that are not objects in the game:
    >turn button
    I don't see that here.
    >turn around
    I don't know what that is.
    >turn description
    I don't know what that is.
    >turn 1
    I don't know what that is.
    >ls
    1  description  dial  diamond  temperature2
    >
Note that "description" and "1" are files in this directory (just like there
are files for "dial" and the "rms" statuette). Nonetheless, the words "1" and
"description" are not game objects, so our script knows they aren't objects. 

Actually, there is only one object that is able to be turned:
    >turn dial
    You must indicate clockwise or counterclockwise.
    >turn clockwise
    I don't know what that is.
    >turn dial clockwise
    It is now luke warm in here. You are perspiring.
    >

So now it is hotter. Let's try it out more:
    >ls
    1  description  dial  diamond  temperature3
    >turn dial counterclockwise
    The temperature has returned to normal room temperature.
    >ls
    1  description  dial  diamond  temperature2
    >turn dial counterclockwise
    The dial will not turn further in that direction.
    >ls
    1  description  dial  diamond  temperature2
    >w
    Northbound Hallway
    There is a floppy disk here.
    >e
    Sauna
    There is a wax statuette of Richard Stallman here.
    It is normal room temperature in here.
    >turn dial clockwise
    It is now luke warm in here. You are perspiring.
    >turn dial clockwise
    It is pretty hot in here. It is still very comfortable.
    >w
    Northbound Hallway
    There is a floppy disk here.
    >

Now, if we turn the dial just one more time, something will happen:
    >e
    Sauna
    There is a wax statuette of Richard Stallman here.
    It is comfortably hot in here.
    >turn dial clockwise
    It is now very hot. There is something very refreshing about this.
    You notice the wax on your statuette beginning to melt, until it completely
    melts off.  You are left with a beautiful diamond!
    >l
    Sauna
    You are in a sauna.  There is nothing in the room except for a dial
    on the wall.  A door leads out to west.
    There is a shimmering diamond here.
    It is refreshingly hot in here.
    >x diamond
    I see nothing special about that.
    >
    
So the wax statuette, which had been lying on the sauna's floor, has melted and
left a diamond. And objects you are carrying are also affected by the heat:
    >w
    Northbound Hallway
    There is a floppy disk here.
    >get floppy
    Taken.
    >e
    Sauna
    There is a shimmering diamond here.
    It is refreshingly hot in here.
    You notice your floppy disk beginning to melt. As you grab for it, the
    disk bursts into flames, and disintegrates.
    >i
    You currently have:
    A lamp
    >
Only the floppy disk and the wax statuette react to the heat.

Now if we turn up the heat one more time, then we will die:
    >ls
    1  description  dial  diamond  temperature5
    >turn dial clockwise
    As the dial clicks into place, you immediately burst into flames.
    
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %

There is another way for the sauna to kill us:
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >get lamp
    Taken.
    >cd ../buttonRoom/.nw/u
    >get rms
    Taken.
    >cd -
    /home/Me/PA3/rooms/receivingRoom
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    You are at the south end of a hallway that leads to the north.  There
    are rooms to the east and west.
    >e
    Sauna
    You are in a sauna.  There is nothing in the room except for a dial
    on the wall.  A door leads out to west.
    It is normal room temperature in here.
    >turn dial
    You must indicate clockwise or counterclockwise.
    >turn clockwise
    I don't know what that is.
    >turn dial clockwise
    It is now luke warm in here. You are perspiring.
    >turn dial clockwise
    It is pretty hot in here. It is still very comfortable.
    You notice the wax on your statuette beginning to melt, until it completely
    melts off.  You are left with a beautiful diamond!
    >ls
    1  description  dial  temperature5
    >cd ../../../buttonRoom/.nw/u/se/d/nw/nw/s/s
    >l
    Lakefront North
    You are at the north side of a lake.  On the other side you can see
    a road which leads to a cave.  The water appears very deep.
    >n
    Health Club front
    You are outside a large building to the north which used to be a health
    and fitness center.  A road leads to the south.
    >n
    Reception area
    You are in a reception area for a health and fitness center.  The place
    appears to have been recently ransacked, and nothing is left.  There is
    a door out to the south, and a crawlspace to the southeast.
    >s
    As you exit the building, you notice some flames coming out of one of the
    windows.  Suddenly, the building explodes in a huge ball of fire.  The
    flames engulf you, and you burn to death.
    
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    % ls ~/_/receivingRoom/e/e
    1  description  dial  temperature5
    %

Aside from the hazard of exiting building, this new area has several other
dangers. Death can come by water or falling, just as much as it may by fire:
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >cd e/n/e
    >ls
    9  d  description  ladder  preserver  weight
    >get preserver
    Taken.
    >cd ../../../../buttonRoom/.nw/u/se/d/nw/nw/s/s
    >l
    Lakefront North
    You are at the north side of a lake.  On the other side you can see
    a road which leads to a cave.  The water appears very deep.
    >i
    You currently have:
    A preserver
    >s
    Lakefront South
    You are at the south side of a lake.  A road goes to the south.
    >n
    Lakefront North
    >s
    Lakefront South
    >drop preserver
    Done.
    >n
    You dive in the water, and at first notice it is quite cold.  You then
    start to get used to it as you realize that you never really learned how
    to swim.
    
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %
Crossing the lake in either direction without a life preserver means death.

But I also promised death by falling:
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >cd ../buttonRoom/.nw/u/se/d/nw/nw/s/s
    >l
    Lakefront North
    You are at the north side of a lake.  On the other side you can see
    a road which leads to a cave.  The water appears very deep.
    >n
    Health Club front
    You are outside a large building to the north which used to be a health
    and fitness center.  A road leads to the south.
    >n
    It is pitch dark.  You are likely to be eaten by a grue.
    >l
    It is pitch dark.  You are likely to be eaten by a grue.
    >s
    You trip over a grue and fall into a pit and break every bone in your
    body.
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %
The problem was that I did not have the lamp. As you see, once we get a warning
about grue, we will die as soon as we move (whether that move is valid or not).
We can't even use "l", but we can examine objects. This behavior is all
identical to the original game.

It turns out that all of the health center, after the first to rooms is dark,
and has the danger of a grue:
    % bash
    % source ~/PA3/PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    You are at the south end of a hallway that leads to the north.  There
    are rooms to the east and west.
    >e
    It is pitch dark.  You are likely to be eaten by a grue.
    >x lamp
    cat: lamp: No such file or directory
    >x dial
    The dial points to a temperature scale which has long since faded away.
    >l
    It is pitch dark.  You are likely to be eaten by a grue.
    >w
    You trip over a grue and fall into a pit and break every bone in your
    body. 
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %

Let's explore the grue's behavior more:
    % bash
    % source ~/PA3/PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >get lamp
    Taken.
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    You are at the south end of a hallway that leads to the north.  There
    are rooms to the east and west.
    >e
    Sauna
    You are in a sauna.  There is nothing in the room except for a dial
    on the wall.  A door leads out to west.
    It is normal room temperature in here.
    >drop lamp
    Done.
    >w
    Northbound Hallway
    >w
    Receiving room
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    >e
    Sauna
    There is a lamp nearby.
    It is normal room temperature in here.
    >w
    Northbound Hallway
    >n
    It is pitch dark.  You are likely to be eaten by a grue.
    >s
    You trip over a grue and fall into a pit and break every bone in your
    body. 
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %
From the above, we see that the lamp can light up a room by being on the floor
or by being in the inventory.

This leads to different death cases: walking forward into a dark room, back-
tracking into a dark room, and entering the locked gamma center when it's dark.
Here is a moving forward death:
    % bash
    % source ~/PA3/PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >get lamp
    Taken.
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    You are at the south end of a hallway that leads to the north.  There
    are rooms to the east and west.
    >n
    End of N/S Hallway
    You are at the end of a north/south hallway.  You can go back to the south,
    or off to a room to the east.
    >drop lamp
    Done.
    >s
    Northbound Hallway
    >w
    Receiving room
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    >n
    End of N/S Hallway
    There is a lamp nearby.
    >e
    It is pitch dark.  You are likely to be eaten by a grue.
    >n
    You trip over a grue and fall into a pit and break every bone in your
    body. 
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %

Here is a backtracking death:
    % bash
    % source ~/PA3/PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >get lamp
    Taken.
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    You are at the south end of a hallway that leads to the north.  There
    are rooms to the east and west.
    >n
    End of N/S Hallway
    You are at the end of a north/south hallway.  You can go back to the south,
    or off to a room to the east.
    >e
    Weight room
    You are in an old weight room.  All of the equipment is either destroyed or
    completely broken.  There is a door out to the west, and there is a ladder
    leading down a hole in the floor.
    There is a 10 pound weight here.
    There is a life preserver here.
    >drop lamp
    Done.
    >w
    It is pitch dark.  You are likely to be eaten by a grue.
    >x ladder
    cat: ladder: No such file or directory
    >s
    You trip over a grue and fall into a pit and break every bone in your
    body. 
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %

And now let's look at that locked door to the Gamma Computing Center. To begin,
note that the cave is, of course, dark:
    % bash
    % source ~/PA3/PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >cd ~/_/buttonRoom/nw/u/se/d/nw/nw/s/s/s
    >l
    Lakefront South
    You are at the south side of a lake.  A road goes to the south.
    >s
    Cave Entrance
    The entrance to a cave is to the south.  To the north, a road leads
    towards a deep lake.  On the ground nearby there is a chute, with a sign
    that says ‘put treasures here for points’.
    >s
    It is pitch dark.  You are likely to be eaten by a grue.
    >x gold
    I see nothing special about that.
    >e
    You trip over a grue and fall into a pit and break every bone in your
    body. 
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %
(Besides everything in the cave being dark, so is everything inside the health
center -- except the first two rooms, "receivingRoom" and "receivingRoom/e".)

The locked door to the gamma computing center is, in fact, in the cave. So it
also dark:
    % bash
    % source ~/PA3/PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >get lamp
    Taken.
    >cd ../mistyRoom/e/e
    >l
    N/S/W Junction
    You are at the junction of two passages. One goes north/south, and
    the other goes west.
    >n
    North end of cave passage
    You are at the north end of a north/south passageway.  There are stairs
    leading down from here.  There is also a door leading west.
    >w
    You must type a 3 digit combination code to enter this room.
    Enter it here: 333
    Sorry, that combination is incorrect.
    >

So what is the combination? We'll find out later. For now, I'll just use "???":
    >w
    You must type a 3 digit combination code to enter this room.
    Enter it here: ???
    Gamma computing center
    You are in the Gamma Computing Center.  An IBM 3090/600s is whirring
    away in here.  There is an ethernet cable coming out of one of the units,
    and going through the ceiling.  There is no console here on which you
    could type.
    >e
    North end of cave passage
    >w
    You must type a 3 digit combination code to enter this room.
    Enter it here: 333
    Sorry, that combination is incorrect.
    >
So we see that the door closes automatically when we leave.

Now let's use our lamp:
    >drop lamp
    Done.
    >l
    North end of cave passage
    You are at the north end of a north/south passageway.  There are stairs
    leading down from here.  There is also a door leading west.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    >w
    You must type a 3 digit combination code to enter this room.
    Enter it here: ???
    It is pitch dark.  You are likely to be eaten by a grue.
    >x cable
    I see nothing special about that.
    >e
    You trip over a grue and fall into a pit and break every bone in your
    body.
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %
Yes, the dark computer room is dangerous.

Let's see about the opposite case of dropping the lamp inside the Gamma Center:
    % bash
    % source ~/PA3/PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >get lamp
    Taken.
    >cd ../mistyRoom/e/e
    >n
    North end of cave passage
    You are at the north end of a north/south passageway.  There are stairs
    leading down from here.  There is also a door leading west.
    >w
    You must type a 3 digit combination code to enter this room.
    Enter it here: ???
    Gamma computing center
    You are in the Gamma Computing Center.  An IBM 3090/600s is whirring
    away in here.  There is an ethernet cable coming out of one of the units,
    and going through the ceiling.  There is no console here on which you
    could type.
    >drop lamp
    Done.
    >e
    It is pitch dark.  You are likely to be eaten by a grue.
    >cat cable
    cat: cable: No such file or directory
    >s
    You trip over a grue and fall into a pit and break every bone in your
    body.
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %
    
Death by fire. Death by water. Death by falling. This programming assignment is
really killing me! What's left, bleeding to death?
    % bash
    % source ~/PA3/PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >get axe
    Taken.
    >break axe
    You take the object in your hands and swing the axe.  Unfortunately, you miss
    the object and slice off your hand.  You bleed to death.
    
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    %

I promise, there are no other ways to die. But let's consider the break command
further:
    % bash
    % source ~/PA3/PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >break
    You have nothing you can use to break things.
    >break paper
    You have nothing you can use to break things.
    >get axe
    Taken.
    >break
    You must supply an object.
    >break paper
    Your axe breaks it into a million pieces.
    >get all
    A bracelet: Taken.
    A brass key: Taken.
    A lamp: Taken.
    A shovel: Taken.
    >l
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    You are at the south end of a hallway that leads to the north.  There
    are rooms to the east and west.
    >n
    End of N/S Hallway
    You are at the end of a north/south hallway.  You can go back to the south,
    or off to a room to the east.
    >e
    Weight room
    You are in an old weight room.  All of the equipment is either destroyed or
    completely broken.  There is a door out to the west, and there is a ladder
    leading down a hole in the floor.
    There is a 10 pound weight here.
    There is a life preserver here.
    >break preserver
    Your axe breaks it into a million pieces.
    >l
    Weight room
    You are in an old weight room.  All of the equipment is either destroyed or
    completely broken.  There is a door out to the west, and there is a ladder
    leading down a hole in the floor.
    There is a 10 pound weight here.
    >break dial
    I don't see that here.
    >x ladder
    It is a normal ladder that is permanently attached to the hole.
    >break ladder
    Your axe shatters into a million pieces.
    >break weight
    You have nothing you can use to break things.
    >i
    You currently have:
    A bracelet
    A key
    A lamp
    A shovel
    >echo "new axe" > ~/_/i/i/axe
    >i
    You currently have:
    A axe
    A bracelet
    A key
    A lamp
    A shovel
    >break weight
    Your axe breaks it into a million pieces.
    >l
    Weight room
    You are in an old weight room.  All of the equipment is either destroyed or
    completely broken.  There is a door out to the west, and there is a ladder
    leading down a hole in the floor.
    >break lamp
    You take the object in your hands and swing the axe.  Unfortunately, you miss
    the object and slice off your hand.  You bleed to death.
    
    You are dead.
    You have scored 0 points.
    >
So, as you can see, you die if you try to break with the axe anything that you
are holding.

The axe has an intended use of completing the level:
    % bash
    % source ./PA3.sh
    Receiving room
    You are in a round, stone room with a door to the east.  There
    is a sign on the wall that reads: ‘receiving room’.
    There is a lamp nearby.
    There is a shiny brass key here.
    There is a shovel here.
    There is a slip of paper here.
    There is an axe here.
    There is an emerald bracelet here.
    >get lamp
    Taken.
    >e
    Northbound Hallway
    You are at the south end of a hallway that leads to the north.  There
    are rooms to the east and west.
    n
    >n
    End of N/S Hallway
    You are at the end of a north/south hallway.  You can go back to the south,
    or off to a room to the east.
    >e
    Weight room
    You are in an old weight room.  All of the equipment is either destroyed or
    completely broken.  There is a door out to the west, and there is a ladder
    leading down a hole in the floor.
    There is a 10 pound weight here.
    There is a life preserver here.
    >get all
    Your load would be too heavy.
    >get weight
    Taken.
    >get preserver
    Your load would be too heavy.
    >l
    Weight room
    You are in an old weight room.  All of the equipment is either destroyed or
    completely broken.  There is a door out to the west, and there is a ladder
    leading down a hole in the floor.
    There is a life preserver here.
    >
From the above, we see that we now have the game's weight restriction.

Well, let's play through:
    >d
    Maze button room
    You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
    There is a button on the ground here.
    >u
    Weight room
    There is a life preserver here.
    >d
    Maze button room
    There is a button on the ground here.
    >nw
    You cannot go that way.
    >drop weight
    Done.
    A passageway opens.
    >u
    You cannot go that way.
    >d
    Maze button room
    There is a 10 pound weight here.
    There is a button on the ground here.
    >nw
    Maze
    You are in a maze of little twisty passages, all alike.
    >u
    Maze 
    You are in a maze of thirsty little passages, all alike.
    There is a floppy disk here.
    There is a wax statuette of Richard Stallman here.
    >get all
    A floppy disk: Taken.
    An RMS statuette: Taken.
    >se
    Maze  
    You are in a maze of twenty little passages, all alike.
    >d
    Maze   
    You are in a daze of twisty little passages, all alike.
    >nw
    Maze    
    You are in a maze of twisty little cabbages, all alike.
    >ne
    Weight room
    There is a life preserver here.
    >get all
    A life preserver: Taken.
    >d
    Maze button room
    There is a 10 pound weight here.
    There is a button on the ground here.
    >nw
    Maze
    >u
    Maze 
    >se
    Maze  
    >d
    Maze   
    >nw
    Maze    
    >nw
    Reception area
    You are in a reception area for a health and fitness center.  The place
    appears to have been recently ransacked, and nothing is left.  There is
    a door out to the south, and a crawlspace to the southeast.
    >s
    Health Club front
    You are outside a large building to the north which used to be a health
    and fitness center.  A road leads to the south.
    >s
    Lakefront North
    You are at the north side of a lake.  On the other side you can see
    a road which leads to a cave.  The water appears very deep.
    >s
    Lakefront South
    You are at the south side of a lake.  A road goes to the south.
    >s
    Cave Entrance
    The entrance to a cave is to the south.  To the north, a road leads
    towards a deep lake.  On the ground nearby there is a chute, with a sign
    that says ‘put treasures here for points’.
    >s
    Misty Room
    You are in a misty, humid room carved into a mountain.
    To the north is the remains of a rockslide.  To the east, a small
    passage leads away into the darkness.
    There is a gold bar here.
    >e
    Cave E/W passage
    You are in an east/west passageway.  The walls here are made of
    multicolored rock and are quite beautiful.
    >e
    N/S/W Junction
    You are at the junction of two passages. One goes north/south, and
    the other goes west.
    >n
    North end of cave passage
    You are at the north end of a north/south passageway.  There are stairs
    leading down from here.  There is also a door leading west.
    >w
    You must type a 3 digit combination code to enter this room.
    Enter it here: ???
    Gamma computing center
    You are in the Gamma Computing Center.  An IBM 3090/600s is whirring
    away in here.  There is an ethernet cable coming out of one of the units,
    and going through the ceiling.  There is no console here on which you
    could type.
    >cut cable
    cut: you must specify a list of bytes, characters, or fields
    Try 'cut --help' for more information.
    >break cable
    As you break the ethernet cable, everything starts to blur.  You collapse
    for a moment, then straighten yourself up.

    Connection closed.
    $
    You have scored 0 points.
    %
From the above, we see that "cut" is not a synonym for "break", unlike in the
real game (because UNIX already has a "cut" command).

When you get to this point in the game, it begins a new, weird level that we
will look at in the next homework.

I will be posting additional help files later. But I am posting this to let you
get started, because it is a long assignment...
